---
title: 관계대명사 (Relative Pronoun)
category: English
date: 2017-01-22T14:10:00Z
lastmod: 2017-01-22T14:10:00Z
comment: true
adsense: true
---
### 1. who, whose, whom - 사람을 대신한다.

#### 1.1. 주어

{: .newline }
> This is the girl. She is a good secretary.
> --> This is the girl who is a good secretary.
>
> I employed a man. I thought (that) he was honest.
> --> I employed a man who I thought was honest.

#### 1.2. 목적어

{: .newline }
> This is the boy. I wanted to see him.
> --> This is the boy whom I wanted to see.
>
> I employed a man. I thought him to be honest.
> I employed a man whom I thought to be honest.

#### 1.3. 소유격

{: .newline }
> A child is called an orphan. His parents are dead.
> --> A child whose parents are dead is called an orphan.

### 2. which - 사람이나 구절을 대신한다.

#### 2.1. 주어

{: .newline }
> I have a book. It is very interesting.
> --> I have a book which is very interesting.

#### 2.2. 목적어

{: .newline }
> This is the dictionary. I bought it yesterday.
> --> This is the dictionary which I bought yesterday.

#### 2.3. 소유격

{: .newline }
> This is the word. I don't know the meaning of it.
> --> This is the word which I don't know the meaning of.
> --> This is the word of which I don't know the meaning.
> --> This is the word the meaning of which I don't know.
> --> This is the word of which the meaning I don't know.
> --> This is the word whose meaning I don't know.

#### 2.4. 구절

{: .newline }
> They tried to persuade her, which turned out to be useless.
> I said nothing, which made her angry.

### 3. that - 사람이나 사물을 대신한다.

#### 3.1. 선행사가 the only, the very, the same과 같은 말을 수식하는 경우.

{: .newline }
> This is the last money that you shall ever receive from me.

#### 3.2. 선행사가 all, no, little, much, -thing, -one, -body 단어일 경우.

{: .newline }
> No man that knows the fact will think me guilty.
> There was little that interested him at the show window.
> I'll give you everything that I have.

#### 3.3. 선행사가 사람 + 사물인 경우

{: .newline }
> A man and his dog that were passing by were injured.
